# Test Heuristics / QA Checklist

The purpose of this document is to identify common patterns and "implicit requirements" associated with Open MCT domain objects to prevent bugs as early as possible in the SDLC: the design and implementation phases. 

These checklist items are not strict rules to follow, but just a list of "implicit requirements" that come when adding new domain objects to Open MCT given how it is leveraged by many downstream projects. When a checklist item in the form of a question, they should be viewed as design decision as well as a requirement.

This technique is well established and is found in https://pragprog.com/titles/ehxta/explore-it/
## Net New Domain Object
The following checklist items should be considered when adding a net new domain object.

### CRUD
Checklist items specific to creating, reading, updating, or deleting interactions.

#### Create
 - A domain object should be visible on the Create Menu with an icon, larger background icon on hoverover and hoverover helper text
 - A domain object should be creatible with only required fields selected.
 - A domain object should be creatible with optional fields.
 - A newly created domain object should have a selectable Location which can have composition (i.e. Folders)
 - If a domain object is editable, it should be in edit mode after create modal

#### Read
- Once a domain object is created, it should be possible to directly navigate to it by URL in fixed and real-time

#### Edit
- Can edit all properties from 'Edit properties' action

#### Delete
- Can delete domain object with 'Remove Object' action (unless locked)
- Once removed, object is no longer visible in tree, no traces remain as links, and the object is not returned in Search

### Interaction with first order domain objects
The following is a list of "first order" domain objects which integrate with _new_ domain objects by default

#### Notebook interaction
- Should be able to drag object into notebook?
- Can take a snapshot of the object in fixed or realtime mode
- Can include snapshot of object in notebook entry
- Snapshot Modal. Can export as JPEG/PNG

#### Drop interaction
- Should this object be droppable into other objects like display layout?
- What should be droppable into this domain object's main view?

#### Telemetry Interaction
- Does this object need to receive realtime updates from a telemetry endpoint?
  - If yes, how many telemetry endpoints can we reference. If one, show confirmation dialoge to replace existing.
- Does this object need

#### Form Properties
- All form props (except hidefromInspector) are visible in inspector
- All props should be testable
- All time related properties should avoid DDOS attacks

#### Search
- Search for object in tree

#### Import and Export
- Export Object and Re-import this domain object as JSON

#### Navigation
- Can refresh after creating object
- Can navigiate direclty via URL to object
- Open Object in New Tab action works as expected

#### Fixed vs Realtime mode
- Events generated by time API
   - Clock
   - Time system
   - Bounds

#### Display Layout 
- Can drag object into Displaylayout and object "looks good"
- Should be able to use Large Display Action
